---
title: Our daily fix
type: namani_blog_post
layout: post
frontpage: true
location: 230nm to go to the Galapagos
position_lat: 1.280166666700
position_lon: -86.367166666700
image: assets/posts/dsc_1168_scale.jpg
---
After fully overcast skies yesterday (Monday 05MAR) and the night before, things cleared up this morning and we continued our slow sail  at a slow jog's pace under blue skies with a few tradewind clouds (even though there aren't much tradewinds around). Beautifully relaxed  sailing on a close reach from midnight last night until about 2200 tonight. Now motorsailing under a nearly full moon and starry skies. Nana  went up the mast to take some pictures earlier today and Nicky had his turn up the stick as well (properly harnessed and belayed of  course). Kiddy pool bath time again before dinner (this is a clean ship ;-).

We're also running a little experiment on this passage: While we use the GPS for our "real" navigation, we're keeping a separate log and  position plot that relies purely on dead reckoning ("DR", i.e. combining estimated speed through the water and compass course steered  with assumed current effect to extrapolate our position over time) and the occasional sextant fix. We're curious if - theoretically - we would  be able to make landfall in the Galapagos without the help of GPS. We use data from the Pilot Charts (long run historical averages from  other ships' observations) to estimate currents and eyeball speed through the water by looking at Namani's wake (turns out that the  gurgeling sound of water flowing along the hull which can be heard in the quarter berth is also very good speed indicator). Of course the  experiment is not entirely on "real terms" as all navigational decisions are still based on our accurate GPS position, which may cause us to  adjust the course steered at a point where the DR data would have had us going straight. Nevertheless, it's very interesting and insightful  to see how and why DR and GPS tracks diverge. We were getting a little "concerned" early today when the difference between our GPS  and DR positions widened to 55nm (enough to potentially make us miss the Galapagos in our theoretical scenario). We hadn't been able to  take any sextant sight for about 48 hours because of overcast skies and a hazy horizon at dusk, and the current in these waters is  signicant and changeable (we've also been underestimating our speed thgrough the water). Luckily, the sky cleared later this morning and  we got a good running fix between a noon sight and an afternoon shot of the sun which got us with 10nm of our GPS position again. We  also were able to take moon, star and planet sights at dusk tonight (we haven't reduced them to a fix yet - we'll see tomorrow if they're any  good). In any case - we may make landfall after all in our little theoretical scenario as well - stay tuned... ;-)
