---
title: Moving on...
type: namani_blog_post
layout: post
frontpage: true
location: moored inside the Hunga Island lagoon  Vava'u Group, Tonga
position_lat: -18.705000000000
position_lon: -174.132500000000
image: assets/posts/dscn1605_scale.jpg
---
After two days of high-speed re-provisioning in Neiafu (incl. a nice dinner with lots of by now familiar crews) we sailed to Hunga today,  where we are now on a mooring inside the lagoon. The mooring belongs to Elke and Werner, a German couple that had retired to this  island after 22 years on their 40 ft steel sloop and an extensive track across the world's oceans. They now run the official "Transocean  Stuetzpunkt" in Tonga. We had a very nice afternoon and evening at their house here. The plan is now to move south to Tonga's Ha'pai  island group over tomorrow (Sat, 20OCT) night and re-unite with Victoria who already sailed tonight. After two fabolously nice weeks in the  Vava'u Group some spin-offs of the SPCZ have started to move in over Vava'u with frequent rain showers. We also had a small  earthquake here (5.5 on the Richter scale) yesterday morning, centered about 25nm SW from Neiafu. No damage but Nana felt the boat  vibrating for a few seconds in the early morning. Markus and Nicky soundly slept through the whole thing. Time to move on...

With respect to the previous post (Nicky's visit to the local school on Mape Island): He very much enjoyed his day at the school. His  favorite things where recess and playing soccer (no surprises there ;-). That same afternoon we stopped at Mariner's Cave on the way to  Neiafu and Nicky proudly made into the cave and back (he had dive about 1-2m down to the submeged entrance, and then 3-4m aross  before resurfacing inside the cave). With the water surging and periodically compressing the trapped air inside the cave there is a cool  effect of 2-3 sec of fog followed by 2-3 sec of clear air inside the cave. No news on the cheese epidemic yet - will keep you posted on  further developments...
